title: Where to now
date: 2015-06-01 17:16:22
tags: [career, data science, intensity, sanity]
---
So I gave notice that in two weeks I would resign from my position at Rackspace two weeks ago.  I think it useful at this stage to provide what motivated me, and where I plan to go now that the smoke has cleared.  First for the shock and horror, I didn't secure a job for myself prior to leaving.  Initially I wrote a somewhat flowery piece about how I found my calling, and how this was somehow a pinnacle of self achievement.  I think it's important to be as honest as possible regarding life changing decisions.  There were two areas that were a deal breaker working at Rackspace.  The first was that I was working graveyard shift.  For people who aren't naturally night owls working these hours is draining, and it only gets worse as time progresses.  A decreased mental and physical state were scary to me.  

For my sanity I realized that working night shift wasn't something I was willing to do anymore.   In a bit over two and half years that I worked for Rackspace I gained 30 pounds, lost muscle mass,  my stress relief changed from a daily Yoga practice to drinking beer, and I no longer had the energy to learn new skills and that was just unacceptable.  I also couldn't participate in group pursuits I had great interest in that fell outside of work not only because most events overlapped with when I was sleeping or working but moreover I simply didn't have enough energy to participate in them.  Not to bring to the surface all of my insecurities but I'm a mid-thirties something who is very much a bachelor only half by choice.  Working those hours certainly doesn't help in my search for a partner in crime.  So romantically describing a desire to move to data science doesn't properly reflect the situation I found myself in nor why I decided to resign.

I was given the opportunity by my manager, and I'm honestly truly thankful to her for trusting in my character and skill set, of moving to a first shift job at Rackspace in the same capacity as I had worked on third.  I love collaborating to create technical solutions however there were several profound limitations with this position.  First I love optimizing algorithms, finding meaning from data, understanding what equations mean in a functional sense, and the challenges, and rewards that working with big data provides.  There was no way of working on these types of problems in that position.  In general the DevOps team was there to ensure we got our customer up and thinking in terms of DevOps paradigms - tearing down silos, system thinking, etc., and operating in a DevOps manner using CI, CD, configuration management etc., etc. but in general this had very little to working with massive systems at scale, and more importantly to this discussion big data.  I love the DevOps culture and I see it as a benefit to businesses who embrace it as well as the tech. workers who work within this paradigm as it bridges two historically diametrically opposed concepts automation and being human, i.e. culture in a manner that makes working better.   Secondly I have a finite amount of energy and I want my work to mean something at least to myself.  This is extremely subjective but data science holds some profound answers to difficult questions, like global climate change, poverty, and many other massive global problems, and DevOps while transformative for both the worker and the organization doesn't hold this import.

There are at least two options to choose from about my immediate future.  They are work as a DevOps engineer within an intensely big data focused corporation, or work as a data scientist.  The first is almost within my grasp, and the second is more alluring to me in the long run.  I think I've made up my mind that I will move to data science but there is always that voice in my head that tells me you already have a good thing why are you throwing the baby out with the bath water.  I could very well see myself unemployed for a full year but I also realize the demand for data scientists makes this fate unlikely.  I just had the house built, and started to enjoy living in it but my career and what I do in my life are ultimately more important than what or even where I live.  As I've defined myself I better reap my rewards.
